# LanguageTool Language Server

LanguageTool Language Server is an implementation of [Language Server Protocol](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/) to enable proofreading/text analysis like great IDEs to any text editor what supports LSP using the [LanguageTool](https://github.com/languagetool-org/languagetool), a multilingual grammar, style, and spell checker what is used by millions of people around the world.

## Features

- [ ] check for errors in the file
    - [x] check for errors in strings 
      - [x] `""`
      - [x] `''` 
      - [x] ` \`` `
      - add more...
    - [x] check for errors in comments 
      - [x] `//`
      - [x] `/* */`
      - add more...
- [ ] use suggestions to text's aid
- [ ] add and remove words from dictionary


## Commands 

Building the project to test requires that you run the `build` script. It will convert the Typescripts files on `src/` to JavaScript on `build/` and runnable on NodeJS vanilla.

```sh
npm run build
```

If you are working on the Typescript files, you should want to build it automatically, so run the `dev` command, what will generate, on each change, the files on `build/` folder.

```sh
npm run dev
```

As it uses the LanguageTool as the service to perform the text analysis, so you should have a [clone](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/) of its project inside the `bin/` folder. Check the NPM 's `server` command on `package.json` file to more information. This command will start a new server of LanguageTool to receive the requests sent by LLS.

```sh
npm run server
```

In order maintain a pattern on the code, there is a `fmt` command to format all Typescripts inside the `src/`.

```sh
npm run fmt
```

## Usage 

After the `build/` folder was generated by `build` or `dev` commands, you are able to use the LLS on your editor.

###  nvim ([coc.nvim](https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim))

Using the basic of LLS on nvim with `coc.nvim`, just type `:CocConfig` and add the code's snippet below to it:

```json
{
	"languageserver": {
		"languagetool-language-server": {
			"module": "<path>/languagetool-language-server/build/index.js",
			"args": ["--node-ipc"],
			"filetypes": ["*"],
			"initializationOptions": {
			}
		}
	}
}
```

#### Development

If you want to improve the LanguageTool Language Server on its integration with `coc.nvim`, check its page of [Debug language server](https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim/wiki/Debug-language-server) to get information and tips to help to complete your task. 

